# AMD-Stock-Analysis-and-Forecasting
## Overview
Analyzing stock data from a financial market landscape is an important aspect of discovering the hidden tendencies, access to market volatility, and other potential investments. This is an elaborate repositery on Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) data as relating to the stock markets and gives the research question various perspectives to break down the market's behavior complexities with respect to time.
The analysis will begin to investigate the stock's performance through various lenses—ranging from analyzing open, high, low, and close prices in combination with trading volume for market sentiment and liquidity. A further dive into volatility analysis brings to light the daily price ranges, which, in turn, give an indication or two about the stability in the market and its investors.
The analysis section has traced the five years performance of the stock with reference to trends and volume movements that have led to the alterations of the market dynamics. The seasonal and monthly performances have been traced to check if there are the recurrent patterns that have been set to form the base for the strategic investment decision. Second, the momentum of the stock is judged by moving averages, and profitability is understood by the rate of return and finally, for capturing broader market trends.
Lastly, we look into Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN), both of which are well-established deep learning models used for capturing temporal dependencies and learning patterns in time series data and assess the accuracy and reliability of these models as they are fed historical stock price data such that they may be used to predict future stock prices. Criteria used to gauge the accuracy of the models follows the evaluation, and the mean squared error (MSE), root mean squared error (RMSE), and mean absolute error (MAE) will be the primary benchmarks for this measure of the models.
